# CS-340
Course work for the CS-340 Client/Server Development course at SNHU.

1. How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
- Creating reusable code can be a major benefit for future projects, as it eliminates the need to rewrite preexisting code by developing it with the intention of reusing it across projects. For this project, Object-Oriented programming was used to enable this by applying many of its principles to create a middleware CRUD module that includes all actions necessary for initializing a database connection, creating, reading, updating, and deleting entries. As experienced with the various assignments that required connecting to a database, this middleware CRUD module allowed quick initialization and database use without the need to repeatedly rewrite the methods required. Still, to allow this module to be reusable, careful consideration needs to be given to how the methods function, to avoid creating single-use methods that apply only to one project. For instance, in the final project, filtering was required when reading entries from the dashboard, and rather than hardcoding specific filters for a method, the CRUD module methods allow the passing of a filter query. Thus, instead of creating multiple methods that match the project's filters, the same method was used, with a different query parameter passed depending on the filter value. By far, the biggest advantage of developing the module in this manner was its ease of use and reusability in multiple projects and assignments. In the future, this middleware CRUD module can continue to be used in other projects to enable database actions. Most importantly, it can be used with other MongoDB databases, so no matter the type of project, the database and collection it needs to connect with, or the actions it needs to perform on the database, it can do so, and if necessary, can be further expanded and added to.
2. How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
- In the initial weeks, this project felt daunting and potentially overwhelming because I was new to MongoDB. However, by drawing on the advice I had gathered from others over the years, I took the time to break down all aspects of the projects into individual tasks to better understand what I needed to do. This action allowed me to fully understand what was expected of me and, most importantly, what I needed to learn about MongoDB before starting the project. From experience, instead of starting right away to solve a problem one is unsure about, taking the time to understand and learn about it properly can help make the process less daunting. In this case, the most daunting part was the initialization, management, and addition to a MongoDB database. I researched the subject, created and managed a database, and completed the daunting initial task with ease, fully understanding it. In the future, to ensure that any database I create meets the standards of other client requests, I plan to gather as much information as possible from the client to fully understand their situation and requirements.
- Additionally, creating the various iterations of the project is another strategy I plan to employ, as it allowed me to gather feedback from others to better align my design and project setup with the client. These other assignments were the perfect opportunity to practice and learn how to use the database properly; however, they differed greatly from the projects, as their focus was on completing the required tasks. While this aspect is extremely important in the projects as well, since a project that cannot perform the necessary tasks is considered a failure, projects also need attention given to other aspects, such as the user experience. Instead of focusing solely on ensuring the project functioned properly, additional care was taken to ensure it was easy to use and understand, since failing to do so would also have resulted in a failed project. Overall, I took the time to break the requirements and tasks down to fully understand what needed to be done. This technique will be one I continue to use going forward, whether it is a simple assignment that focuses only on requirements or a major project that requires other elements to be addressed as well.
3. What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
- At this point, my view towards what computer scientists do is that they find ways to utilize computers to make tasks or problems solvable or easier to manage. There are numerous examples of how one can use a computer to help solve a problem. For instance, managing inventory is best done on a computer, as it allows it to be managed from multiple devices and locations. Even though other means could be used to manage inventory, it would not be as effective or efficient as a computer. This lower efficiency would cause issues for workers who rely on the system, and, ultimately, it could snowball into other major issues. For this project, this belief was reinforced: the creation of the frontend for filtering and viewing specific animal shelter entries from the database would greatly improve rescue workers' efficiency in finding animals that match their requirements for specific rescues. Having the ability to quickly and easily filter a database would make finding animals easier, and rather than having to perform complex database commands, these are replaced with simple button presses, so even newer employees would be able to use the system. Being able to create a system like this would make the jobs of rescuers, animal shelters, and all Grazioso Salvare employees easier, which is the system's main goal. Overall, the main goal of a computer scientist is to find ways to use a computer to solve issues, such as the creation of this animal shelter filtering and viewing webpage, which helps the involved workers quickly find the animals they need for specific rescue situations.
